[docs]: add configuration reference (#397)
hyperledger-iroha/iroha-2-docs: src/api/config/index.md

# Configuring Iroha

::: danger WORK IN PROGRESS

It is not implemented yet. Early draft document according to the RFC.

:::

When running `iroha` from the command line, Iroha will try to resolve a config file named `iroha.toml` inside `cwd`. Then it tries to read a set of Environment Variables, associated with configuration parameters.
The most basic `iroha.toml` config file looks like this:

```toml
public_key = "ed0120FAFCB2B27444221717F6FCBF900D5BE95273B1B0904B08C736B32A19F16AC1F9"
private_key = { digest = "ed25519", payload = "82886B5A2BB3785F3CA8F8A78F60EA9DB62F939937B1CFA8407316EF07909A8D236808A6D4C12C91CA19E54686C2B8F5F3A786278E3824B4571EF234DEC8683B" }

[network]
# peer-to-peer communication address
address = "localhost:1337"

[torii]
api_address = "localhost:8080"
```

> The path to the configuration file might be overwritten either with `--config` CLI argument, or with `IROHA_CONFIG` environment variable: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to the configuration file can be overwritten either with `--config` CLI argument, or with `IROHA_CONFIG` environment variable: 
```

::: code-group

```bash [With --config]
$ iroha --config ./cfg.toml
```

```bash [With IROHA_CONFIG]
$ IROHA_CONFIG=/path/to/config/iroha.toml iroha
```

:::

Additionally, Iroha reads a set of Environment Variables, associated with configuration parameters. Values from ENV override values from the config file. For example:

::: code-group

```shell [ENV variables]
PUBLIC_KEY=ed0120FAFCB2B27444221717F6FCBF900D5BE95273B1B0904B08C736B32A19F16AC1F9
PRIVATE_KEY="{\"digest\":\"ed25519\",\"payload\":\"82886B5A2BB3785F3CA8F8A78F60EA9DB62F939937B1CFA8407316EF07909A8D236808A6D4C12C91CA19E54686C2B8F5F3A786278E3824B4571EF234DEC8683B\"}"
NETWORK_ADDRESS=localhost:1337
TORII_API_ADDRESS=localhost:8080
```

```toml [Equivalent in TOML]
public_key = "ed0120FAFCB2B27444221717F6FCBF900D5BE95273B1B0904B08C736B32A19F16AC1F9"
private_key = { digest = "ed25519", payload = "82886B5A2BB3785F3CA8F8A78F60EA9DB62F939937B1CFA8407316EF07909A8D236808A6D4C12C91CA19E54686C2B8F5F3A786278E3824B4571EF234DEC8683B" }

[network]
address = "localhost:1337"

[torii]
api_address = "localhost:8080"
```

:::

> Please refer to each field's documentation for specific ENV names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the documentation from each field for specific ENV names.
```

Author: "From" each field, of "for" each field?

Reviewer 2: for

::: tip Debugging

To trace how configuration is resolved, run `iroha` with
[`--trace-config`](../cli#trace-config) flag:

```bash
$ iroha --trace-config
```

The output will be something like:

```
TODO: sample output
```

TODO: maybe also enable with `IROHA_CONFIG_TRACE=1` env var?

:::

## TOML Format

> Iroha uses [TOML (Tom's Obvious Minimal Language)](https://toml.io/) format for its configuration. Please refer to its documentation if you need assistance about how it works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iroha uses the [TOML (Tom's Obvious Minimal Language)](https://toml.io/) format for its configuration. Please refer to its documentation if you need assistance with how it works.
```

# Configuring Iroha

::: danger WORK IN PROGRESS

It is not implemented yet. Early draft document according to the RFC.

:::

When running `iroha` from the command line, Iroha will try to resolve a

> config file named `iroha.toml` inside `cwd`. Then it tries to read a set of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
config file named `iroha.toml` inside the current working directory. Then it tries to read a set of
```

> Environment Variables, associated with configuration parameters. The most

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environment Variables associated with configuration parameters. The most
```
